.\"						Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH cpfs.reiser4 8 "20 Jul, 2003" reiser4progs "reiser4progs manual"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cpfs.reiser4 \- the program for copying reiser4 filesystem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpfs.reiser4
[ options ] SRC DST
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cpfs.reiser4
is reiser4 filesystem copying program.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V, --version
prints program version.
.TP
.B -?, -h, --help
prints program help.
.TP
.B -y, --yes
assumes an answer 'yes' to all questions.
.TP
.B -f, --force
forces cpfs to use whole disk, not block device or mounted partition.
.TP
.B -c, --cache N
sets tree cache node number to passed value. This affects very much
behavior of libreiser4. It affects speed, tree allocation, etc.
.SH PLUGIN OPTIONS
.TP
.B -p, --print-profile
prints the plugin profile. This is the set of default plugins used for all 
parts of a filesystem -- format, nodes, files, directories, hashes, etc. If
--override is specified, then prints modified plugins.
.TP
.B -l, --print-plugins
prints all plugins libreiser4 knows about.
.TP
.B -o, --override TYPE=PLUGIN, ...
overrides the default plugin of the type "TYPE" by the plugin "PLUGIN"
in the plugin profile.
.sp 1
Example:
.sp 1
cpfs.reiser4 -yf -o nodeptr=nodeptr41,hash=rupasov_hash /dev/hda2 /dev/hda3
.RS
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <umka@namesys.com>, <reiserfs-list@namesys.com>
.SH SUPPORT
You can get support at http://www.namesys.com/support.html
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libreiser4(8),
.BR measurefs.reiser4(8),
.BR debugfs.reiser4(8),
.BR fsck.reiser4(8)
.BR mkfs.reiser4(8)
.BR resizefs.reiser4(8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Yury Umanets <umka@namesys.com>

