.\"						Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH debugfs.reiser4 8 "02 Oct, 2002" reiser4progs "reiser4progs manual"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
debugfs.reiser4 \- the program for debugging the reiser4 filesystem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B debugfs.reiser4
debugfs.reiser4 [ options ] FILE1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B debugfs.reiser4
is reiser4 filesystem debug program. You can disscover the internal reiser4 filesystem 
structures by using it.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V, --version
prints program version
.TP
.B -?, -u, --usage
prints program usage
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
forces using the filesystem without any questions
.TP
.B -f, --force
makes debugfs to use whole disk, not block device or mounted partition.
.SH BROWSING OPTIONS
.TP
.B -l, --ls
browses passed file like standard ls program.
.TP
.B -c, --cat
browses passed file like standard cat program.
.SH PRINT OPTIONS
.TP
.B -i, --print-items
forces debugfs.reiser4 to print item content when --print-tree specified.
.TP
.B -t, --print-tree
prints the internal tree.
.TP
.B -n, --print-block N
prints block by passed block number.
.TP
.B -i, --print-file FILE
prints all metadata blocks specified file occupies.
.TP
.B -s, --print-super
prints the both super blocks: master super block and format specific one.
.TP
.B -j, --print-journal
prints the journal with not commited transaction (if any).
.TP
.B -b, --print-block-alloc
prints the block allocator data.
.TP
.B -o, --print-oid-alloc
prints the oid allocator data.
.SH MEASUREMENT OPTIONS
.TP
.B -S, --tree-stat
shows different tree statistics (node packing, internal nodes, leaves, etc)
.TP
.B -T, --tree-frag
measures total tree fragmentation. The result is fragmentation factor
- value from 0.00000 (minimal fragmentation) to 1.00000 (maximal one). Most
probably, this factor may affect sequential read performance.
.TP
.B -D, --data-frag
measures average files fragmentation. It means, that fragmentation of
each file in filesystem will be measured separately and results will
be avaraged. The result is fragmentation factor - value from 0.00000
(minimal fragmentation) to 1.00000 (maximal one).
.sp 1
Note, that for the fresh filesystem (created not very long time ago)
and even fully filled by data, this value will be pretty small.
.TP
.B -F, --file-frag FILE
measures fragmentation of the specified file. The result is
fragmentation factor - value from 0.00000 (minimal fragmentation) to
1.00000 (maximal one). Note, that fragmentation of a small file
(depends of used tail policy), which consists of tail items, is not
very reliable value. That is because, they is always afoot due to
balancing.
.sp 1
Examples:
.sp 1
debugfs.reiser4 -F /usr/bin /dev/hda2
.br
debugfs.reiser4 -F /bin/bash /dev/hda2
.TP
.B -p, --show-each
show file fragmentation for each file if --data-frag is specified.
.SH PLUGIN OPTIONS
.TP
.B -e, --profile PROFILE
profile to be used.
.TP
.B -K, --known-profiles
prints known profiles.
.RS
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <umka@namesys.com>, <reiserfs-list@namesys.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libreiser4 (8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Yury Umanets <umka@namesys.com>
