.\"						Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH fsck.reiser4 8 "05 February, 2004" reiser4progs "reiser4progs manual"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fsck.reiser4 \- the program for checking and repairing reiser4 filesystem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsck.reiser4
[ options ] FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fsck.reiser4
is reiser4 filesystem check and repair program.
.SH CHECK OPTIONS
.TP
.B --check
the default action checks the consistency and reports, but does not repair any corruption that it finds. 
This option may be used on a read-only file system mount.
.TP
.B --fix
fixes minor corruptions that do not require rebuilding;
sets up correct values of bytes unsupported by kernel in the case of transparent compression.
.TP
.B --build-sb
fixes all severe corruptions in super blocks, rebuilds super blocks from scratch if needed.
.TP
.B --build-fs
fixes all severe fs corruptions, except super block ones; rebuilds reiser4 filesystem from the scratch if needed.
.TP
.B -L, --logfile
forces fsck to report any corruption it finds to the specified logfile rather then on stderr.
.TP
.B -n, --no-log
prevents fsck from reporting any kind of corruption.
.TP
.B -a, --auto
automatically checks the file system without any questions.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
supresses gauges.
.TP
.B -r
ignored.
.SH PLUGIN OPTIONS
.TP
.B --print-profile
prints the plugin profile. This is the set of default plugins used for all
parts of a filesystem -- format, nodes, files, directories, hashes, etc. If
--override is specified, then prints modified plugins.
.TP
.B -l, --print-plugins
prints all plugins libreiser4 know about.
.TP
.B -o, --override TYPE=PLUGIN, ...
overrides the default plugin of the type "TYPE" by the plugin "PLUGIN"
in the plugin profile.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V, --version
prints program version
.TP
.B -?, -h, --help
prints program help
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
suppress messages.
.TP
.B -y, --yes
assumes an answer 'yes' to all questions.
.TP
.B -f, --force
forces fsck to use whole disk, not block device or mounted partition.
.TP
.B -p, --preen
automatically repair minor corruptions on the filesystem.
.TP
.B -c, --cache N
tunes number of nodes in the libreiser4 tree buffer cache
.RS
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <reiserfs-devel@vger.kernel.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR debugfs.reiser4(8),
.BR mkfs.reiser4(8),
.BR measurefs.reiser4(8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Vitaly Fertman <vitaly@namesys.com>
