.\"						Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH measurefs.reiser4 8 "28 Apr, 2003" reiser4progs "reiser4progs manual"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
measurefs.reiser4 \- the program for measuring reiser4 filesystem
parameters (fragmentation, node packing, etc.).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B measurefs.reiser4
[ options ] FILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B measurefs.reiser4
is reiser4 filesystem measure program. You can estimate reiser4
filesystem fragmentation, packingm etc. structures by using it.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V, --version
prints program version
.TP
.B -?, -u, --usage
prints program usage
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
forces using the filesystem without any questions
.TP
.B -f, --force
makes measurefs to use whole disk, not block device or mounted partition.
.SH MEASUREMENT OPTIONS
.TP
.B -S, --tree-stat
shows different tree statistics (node packing, internal nodes, leaves, etc)
.TP
.B -T, --tree-frag
measures total tree fragmentation. The result is fragmentation factor
- value from 0.00000 (minimal fragmentation) to 1.00000 (maximal one). Most
probably, this factor may affect sequential read performance.
.TP
.B -D, --data-frag
measures average files fragmentation. It means, that fragmentation of
each file in filesystem will be measured separately and results will
be avaraged. The result is fragmentation factor - value from 0.00000
(minimal fragmentation) to 1.00000 (maximal one).
.sp 1
Note, that for the fresh filesystem (created not very long time ago)
and even fully filled by data, this value will be pretty small.
.TP
.B -F, --file-frag FILE
measures fragmentation of the specified file. The result is
fragmentation factor - value from 0.00000 (minimal fragmentation) to
1.00000 (maximal one). Note, that fragmentation of a small file
(depends of used tail policy), which consists of tail items, is not
very reliable value. That is because, they is always afoot due to
balancing.
.sp 1
Examples:
.sp 1
measurefs.reiser4 -F /usr/bin /dev/hda2
.br
measurefs.reiser4 -F /bin/bash /dev/hda2
.TP
.B -E, --show-file
show file fragmentation for each file if --data-frag is specified.
.SH PLUGIN OPTIONS
.TP
.B -e, --profile PROFILE
profile to be used.
.TP
.B -K, --known-profiles
prints known profiles.
.TP
.B -P, --known-plugins
prints known plugins.
.TP
.B -o, --override TYPE=PLUGIN, ...
overrides the default plugin of the type "TYPE" by the plugin "PLUGIN"
.sp 1
Examples:
.sp 1
measurefs.reiser4 -o nodeptr=nodeptr41,hash=rupasov_hash /dev/hda2
.RS
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <umka@namesys.com>, <reiserfs-list@namesys.com>
.SH SUPPORT
You can get support at http://www.namesys.com/support.html
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libreiser4(8),
.BR debugfs.reiser4(8),
.BR mkfs.reiser4(8),
.BR fsck.reiser4(8)
.BR cpfs.reiser4(8)
.BR resizefs.reiser4(8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Yury Umanets <umka@namesys.com>
