.\"						Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH mkfs.reiser4 8 "02 Oct, 2002" reiser4progs "reiser4progs manual"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mkfs.reiser4 \- the program for creating reiser4 filesystem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkfs.reiser4
[ options ] FILE1 FILE2 ... [ size[K|M|G] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkfs.reiser4
is reiser4 filesystem creation program. It is based on new libreiser4
library. Since libreiser4 fully plugin-based, we have potential
possibility to create not just reiser4, but any filesystem or database
format, which based on the balanced tree.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.B -V, --version
prints program version.
.TP
.B -?, -h, --help
prints program help.
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
forces creating filesystem without any questions.
.TP
.B -f, --force
makes mkfs to use whole disk, not block device or mounted partition.
.SH MKFS OPTIONS
.TP
.B -b, --block-size N
block size to be used (architecture page size by default)
.TP
.B -L, --label LABEL
volume label to be used
.TP
.B -U, --uuid UUID
universally unique identifier to be used
.TP
.B -s, --lost-found
forces mkfs to create lost+found directory.
.SH PLUGIN OPTIONS
.TP
.B -p, --print-profile
prints the plugin profile. This is the set of default plugins used for all
parts of a filesystem -- format, nodes, files, directories, hashes, etc. If
--override is specified, then prints modified plugins.
.TP
.B -l, --print-plugins
prints all plugins libreiser4 know about.
.TP
.B -o, --override TYPE=PLUGIN, ...
overrides the default plugin of the type "TYPE" by the plugin "PLUGIN"
in the plugin profile.
.sp 1
Examples:
.sp 1
assign short key plugin to "key" field in order to create filesystem
with short keys policy:
.sp 1
mkfs.reiser4 -qf -o key=key_short /dev/hda2
.RS
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <umka@namesys.com>, <reiserfs-list@namesys.com>
.SH SUPPORT
You can get support at http://www.namesys.com/support.html
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libreiser4(8),
.BR measurefs.reiser4(8),
.BR debugfs.reiser4(8),
.BR fsck.reiser4(8)
.BR cpfs.reiser4(8)
.BR resizefs.reiser4(8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Yury Umanets <umka@namesys.com>

